# Implementing a SuperMatter Themed Antagonist

| Designers | Implemented | GitHub Links |
|---|---|---|
| SIU + Snippet from Joaco545 + snippet from Dicerson + Snippet from Neadsy |  :x: No | TBD |

## Overview

  What I am proposing is implementing a SuperMatter Themed Antagonist that would function in two primary ways. It would display NT negligence for increased efficiency and acquiring of cash. As well as functioning as an antag built around exploiting and loopholing space law, and NT SOP around it, to be in a good position to conquer the station.

## Background
 it would function as a way to give magistrate, lawyer, and similar roles more unique job performances relating to this antagonist, as well as encouraging security to squint and try to see if this antagonist is overstepping the lines, additionally, in order to prevent it from being over centralized, this bonus "SM" can have a purposes for each department, likely being a little less hostile unless it's trying to be then the original supermatter, acting as a creature from the dimension. Points and better machines for SCI, printing money for Cargo, P O W E R for engineering, better guns, and helpful allies for SEC, dozens of paperwork lackies for command/NTR, general hands to help service, and better access to medical chems for medical. Links to relevant conversations: https://discord.com/channels/1276640157511979008/1276653734767755294/1491577740263166183 + https://discord.com/channels/1276640157511979008/1276653734767755294/1491678408298598522

## Features to be added

  The major feature to be added: The Chrystaline Supermatter, is a sort of bee/hive themed semi-conversion, deal tangled cult antagonist. Essentially the idea is that Nanotrasen implements this Chrystaline SuperMatter experimentally, because it’s a little cheaper to produce than normal Supermatter, and is slightly more adaptable. As well as increasing the productivity of Engineering staff that are influenced by it, as long as the deals it makes are followed. At the crux of it, this antagonist is built to rules lawyer deals made with it into giving it a LOT of wiggle room. Its main abilities would be to convert crew, and silicons, distribute commands, and generate LUDICROUS amounts of power. To the point it may cause wire burns when it decides to stop operating outside of its deals completely.  The Infected crew abilities would be construction of crystalline metallic hive material, and deconstruction capabilities, as well as inbuilt capabilities for all available utility goggles, tools, and a quick and easy to access map. As well as the ability to construct traps, I.e Holofan based atmos traps, shock traps, stuff like that, Additionally combat related capabilities would be heavy incendiary and radiation damage via stingers and brawling, plus an electric stun to snag crew once it starts violating the deals it makes. These are done through natural means. There’d be a crafting station for crafting some more advanced tools, guns, and resources, I think, probably crystalline and goopy. The main goal would be empowering the Chrystaline Supermatter enough that it can hatch into a queen, not a true round end immediately, but it’s equivalent to the all hands on deck requirement of the monolith or final ritual being activated given it’s good at converting and ashing. If greater than 85% of the crew or the station’s tiles are converted, then that’s the round end, with the station becoming a hive that sells power to NT. The bow that ties this together, is the reccomendations that the CTM would give, encouraging command to appease it and strike bargains, as well as working with security, lawyers, and magistrate to establish deals treating it as crew, encouraging it to stay within the deals it makes whilst generating absurd amounts of power, treating it and any hive members as crew as long as those deals are maintained.  Those deals able to state things like: if more than 30% of the crew is a part of the hive, it may not make any conversions, as well as something like: hive material must not interfere with crew operations. Things of that nature. As well as the deals relating to just keeping the Chrystaline SuperMatter appeased, but not aggressively conquering. Encouraging Magistrate, security and Lawyers to interact with, and roleplay out effective HOA agreements with that hive.
  Infected would likely have glowing yellow eyes that can be hidden in the early stages, as well as taking on more blatant crystaline bee related traits in the mid-late stages of this antagonist, although if it hasn't broken it's deals, even if they get blatant features like that, they would still not be valid. Communication for the supermatter can only be done on an antag radio, until communications servers get subverted, at which point it can talk on the infected servers. It can see through it's tiles, infected crew, as well as eventually cameras if the camera routers get assimilated. In general, the supermatter can infect machines to use them in the same way the AI can. Able to upgrade those machines to perform better using some of it's power to use in bargaining as well. Additionally, the Chrystaline Supermatter can develop subnodes to diversify from it's initial boons made to bargain with the station. To give points, power, tools, weapons, money, all sorts of bargaining chips, but at a touch of a price.

## Optional Features

 When cameras are subverted, the AI and supermatter can see eachother's cursors when looking around. Gingerbreads in the mid-late stage look like they're made of suppermatter. Moths Go full bee mode at the early stage, Arachnids go wasp mode. Security can assign a status unique to those infected by something.

## Game Design Rationale

 The idea is to encourage more command/security and crew tension, as well as general roleplay shenanigans you can  get up to with an antagonist that is weak at first and has to comply with the deals it makes with command, but builds up to a good spot to escalate past the limits of the deals it makes. If the Antag wants to actually comply with the deals, they probably can if they really wanted to, and do their antagonism by the book. As a conversion antagonist, there is technically a win/lose state unfortunately, but I aimed for it to be more roleplay oriented as it’s a conversion antagonist that isn’t valid at roundstart due to snowballing a little, and trying to get stronger within it's deals till it can burst free. Plus the silliness of just: Nanotrasen and a hivemind rules lawyering each other is a bonus.

## Roundflow & Player interaction

  Chrystaline matter arrives in a shipment to the bridge, with a few infected personnel being brought to bridge to bargain with the other departments, to give major boons This includes security, and means security can be corrupted soon after round start. As the Chrystaline matter can only do one thing at a time at the start of the round, this encourages competative bidding to get whatever the chrystaline matter has to offer each department which in turn means sewing a little tension between departments, and overall more competitive bids.

  A department then gets the Chrystaline Matter depending on the results of the bidding, and revels in the boons from it, getting corrupted inside out, with the command member's SOP job being to contain, but IC? They're likely going to get bribed into compliance. The chrystaline matter would then slooowly branch out from it's host department, staying within the deals made best it can with the magistrate and IAA inspecting it's borders to make sure it stays within deals, whilst the chrystaline matter attempts to toe the line, whilst acquiring even more power for itself, before reaching the midstage some 15-20% of the tiles and crew infected. Able to make subnodes to provide lesser boons to other departments or even more boons to it's main one. At this point physical changes will out it as existing to the general public, whilst empowering the infected BUT it is not neccesarily valid just yet, but depending on the airtightness of deals, it may be approaching it, the conversions would be a little more obvious, and the general crew would be encouraged to start raising a ruckus about not wanting to become literal drones in the bee sense, for the corporation, it'd start infecting a decent chunk of machines on the station at this point, and may even start talking on comms and using the cameras if comms and cameras were not corrupted till then. 
Eventually depending on it's position, potentially corrupting the silicons into buzzy borgs. In the late stage, roughly 50% crew/station conversion the chrystaline matter will hatch, into a big ole elegant chrystaline bee queen, any deals made to allow it to actually hatch are only able to be granted by centcomm itself and it generally won't do that. At which point it's an outright war to stop the queen from outright infecting the whole station and making it a chrystaline hive asset rather then a NT asset.
NOTE: HATCHING =/= ROUND END, HATCHING = ALL HANDS ON DECK SCENARIO I.E NUKE BEING ARMED.
Effectively it's an antagonist NT wants that turns a chosen department into antags by association, as well as generally rules lawyering deals.

## Chrystaline Matter Power Growth.

**Core CM Abilities:**
- Early-Mid- Infecting wires. Able to anchor and unanchor itself. Eye in the Sky Gameplay. infecting floor tiles. Subverting machines in order to make use of them for it's own needs, using them in the same way the AI can use those machines, such as camera routers & Comms Servers. buffing machines it infects to be faster and more resource efficient. Antag Chat. **CAN ONLY SPEAK IN COMMS** can convert crew & Borgs 3 starting infected. Gets strengthened and healed by hot gases. Gets weaker in the cold. Can signal and coordinate on a navmap the infected have access to. Can also signal tiles for infected. Has a research tree like structure that can be used to get various departmental abilities, alongside the abilities it passively gains. Can Overcharge any power cell to 2 times capacity. Immunity to Burn, Poison, Shock, and Radiation. Resistance to piercing and slashing. Able to insta-ash infected griefers.
- Mid-Late- Constructing Subnodes to perform functions for other departments then the chosen one, Infecting walls. Converting mindshielded crew. Causing wire burns along wires it infects if chosen. generating flammable gases. heals infected crew. Increases the ambient temperature if allowed. able to teleport to any other infected tiles. HATCHING(instantly transitions to endgame). Can Overcharge any power cell to 4 times capacity.
- ENDGAME- **Is a big ole Bee Queen instead of a rock**. Can use both a player, and eye in the sky pov,  albeit the latter makes it form a protective shield but stand still. Can speak in standard chat, rather then only various comms. Causes heavy Radiation, and Burn damage with basic attacks. Can grab crew and break them over the knee to make them dead crew. Converts dead crew into more infected with a numpad action. Can revive dead infected with a fairly long do-after. Emits a high amount of radiation, and heat into the atmosphere. Can Overcharge any power cell to 8 times capacity. Can fly in space, Immune to pressure. Has two handslots, and a natural inventory.

**CM Infected Abilities:**
- Early-Mid- Inbuilt tool set, includes effectively everything in an engineer's tool belt. Gets strengthened and healed by hot gases. Gets weaker in the cold. Can make Hive Resin Tiles, windows, doors, and walls by generating the resin passively at a rate roughly matching the experimental RCD in terms the ratio to material:what's constructed. Immunity to Burn, Shock, & Radiation damage. Vulnerable to cold damage. **Has glowing yellow eyes, and antennae.** CQC attacks & Punches deal light Radiation, Burn, and Physical damage. Note: due to interactions with changelings, changelings will get ashed by this antag if converted, and are encourages to pull whatever stops to run away it can.
- Mid-Late- Can build hive resin traps(Pits, Permanent Holofans, Hotpipes, Radzones, Blowdarts), circuits, wires, and atmos pipes. Gains pressure immunity. Can perform a leap, which can be an attack if harm is the mode selected. **Gains bee like wings, an abdomen, and the fuzz one would associated with a bee as physical signatures**. Can perform rituals to create a workstation that can make hive based hardsuits, voidsuits, jetpacks, and lances that can be used in harm dashes, These lances can be charged to deal Radiation, Burn, and Physical damage. Can perform conversion rituals on their own on any hive tile. 
- ENDGAME- **Goes full bee in terms of apperance**. CQC attacks & Punches deal moderate Radiation, Burn, and Physical damage. Gains a stinger that can begin a viral infection that converts a crew member after a minute if they aren't shoved in the oubliette. Passively heats up the atmosphere around them, and emits radiation. Can perform rituals to convert crew, including mind shielded crew at higher speeds on any hive tile. Can construct hive based shuttle components. Gain resistance to slashing and pierce damage.

**Engineering Centric Abilities:**
- Early-Mid- Able to RCD unlimitedly, can generate lots of power. Able to make traps + atmos from the start.
- Mid-Late- Facilitates easier creation of metallic hydrogen. Can enhance metallic hydrogen gear to immense knightly levels.
- ENDGAME- Gains a knightly dash with a lance it can make, gains the resistances that the metallic hydrogen armor gives.

**R&D Centric Abilities:**
- Early-Mid- Generates points at a fair rate, increases general speed, health, resistance, and damage of infected borgs by a fair margin. Can change batteries to make them run more efficiently.
- Mid-Late- Generates even more points, as well as acting as a protolathe that can create any item that science has researched, accessible or not through the regular protolathe.
- ENDGAME- It and crew can cause detonations at themselves at will. Gain immunity to explosive damage. Can cause EMPs, localized teleportation of non infected crew, heat spikes, chemical anomalies, you name it, and cause the criticality effects to occur at will.

**Medical Centric Abilities:**
- Early-Mid- Generates lowgrade medical chemicals. Gains the ability to heavily heal the crew alongside infected.
- Mid-Late- Generates mid-high grade medical chemicals. Gains the ability to revive crew alongside the infected. Additionally, revived and healed crew are resistant to radiation, and gain a virus that converts them over the course of a few minutes. Infected can heavily heal others.
- ENDGAME- Very viral, spreads like zombies, infection takes course over a minute. infected crew has immunity to poison damage

**Cargo Centric Abilities:**
- Early-Mid- Generates basic materials.
- Mid-Late- Generates advanced materials. Can enhance Proto-Kinetic equipment, as well as further enchance hardsuits. In addition, Pressure immunity is gained by infected crew. Can create more deadly guns
- ENDGAME- Gains the ability to perform a radioactive fireball attack. Can damage large portions of non Hive infrastructure. Can create powerful high strength armaments it or it's crew can use. It and it's crew gain resistance to blunt damage.

**Security Centric Abilities:**
SCRAPPED: Reasoning is that for this antag to not get rushed down, the HoS needs to not be aware of the severity of which it can escalate to, But due to this very nature, it being able to turn sec into an Antag effectively highly damages the crew's chances of fighting back once deals are broken and it's declared hostile.

## Chrystaline Matter Counters

  Cold atmospheres can weaken the Chrystaline Matter and Infected crew, it doesn't result in death, but it does apply some breathing room if needed. Hot atmospheres consequently strengthen them. Atmos & Cosmic Cult as such can do some decent damage to their capabilities. The bread and butter of the chrystaline matter is radiation and heat damage, meaning engineering is equipped to counter it as long as they can bypass the heat, and actively destroying the Chrystaline Matter crystal can work.

  In addition to that. The chrystaline matter is also susceptible to lawyers, the magistrate, and IAA, as it has to work with deals at the start, depending on how airtight those deals are, it reduces how strong it's able to get before it's forced to go loud. Not to mention security can assigned infected crew to be suspects. In addition, before the physical changes start, science can make an oubliette to cure the influence. However once they start having major physical changes, surgery, is the only lasting cure.

## Chrystaline Meta-shield
CTM - A handful of crew will be lightly influenced by the Chrystaline Matter, this is intentional as it becomes even more stable when deals are struck with these people, and provide more specialized benefits to the crew. People under a light influence behave more efficiently as crew. Treat these crew, and the chrystaline matter, as neutral entities for the purposes of negotiation. In addition, the Chrystaline Matter provides these benefits: -List of beneficial effects of the Chrystaline Matter-
- Alert one - Light Topaz Alert - 12 crew or 15% tile conversion - Increase in local radiation levels detected and increased status of mental distress, Please check on the Supermatter, and Chrystaline Matter, and apply cooling if neccesary.
- Alert two - Topaz Alert - 18 crew or 15-20% tile conversion as tiles would start being trapped guarenteed crew would start showing signs of being infected, and this is when more air tight deals are meant to fall through.- Large spike in local radiation levels, and composition scans report a shift in station composition, please investigate in order to shield the affected areas and prepare radiation and fire suits for general use, in addition: If deals are being violated, please rectify it as per the level of vandalism caused.
- Alert three - Deep Topaz Alert - 24 crew, 30-40% tile conversion(either being met causes hatching) - Chrystaline HyperStructure is indicated to be failing, please cool it down immediately-
- Alert four - Deep Topaz Alert - HATCHING - Chrystaline HyperStructure failed. Contain the Chrystaline Delamination with whatever means are available, cooling is highly effective, HEV, and Radiation, suits are reccomended.
- Alert five - Final Topaz Alert - 95% tile conversion/Total Living Crew Conversion - Total station Delamination detected. Consider all crew lost. 
- Note: I initially intended for the Chrystaline Matter to have the majority of it's information exposed by the CTM at round start. However, I have been informed that any HoS worth their salt would just shoot down the chrystaline matter despite it being the round's main push force, and deal with the consequences from CentComm for destroying something meant to explicitly improve station productivity.
## Administrative & Server Rule Impact 

- Does this feature introduce any new rule enforcement challenges or additional workload for admins? It involves CTM and metashield weirdness, so yes, it would require some admin oversight to make sure people don’t rush the supermatter whilst it’s behaving.
- Could this feature increase the likelihood of griefing, rule-breaking, or player disputes? It provides the form  of griefing of just sprinting at the hive, or people griefing the hive by acting out of it's deals. Or as I have been informed, the HoS going out of their way to destroy it ahead of time if the CTM informed them of all of the potential negative effects, even if actively intended to be punished by the magistrate for doing so. 
- How are the rules enforced mechanically by way the feature will be implemented? This is semi-reinforced mechanically by rushing a supermatter adjacent object on your own that’s defended being a bad idea, no matter how early in the round it is... Unless you happen to be the HoS, it is treated as a neutral entity but is defended by at least 3 crew members. 

## Lore Considerations

So turns out the Supermatter seems like it's just stellar phenomena. A dead eldritch being like Ratvar is likely a source1, so could likely explain this as a creature type that formed ON supermatter that formed around, or under the influence of this dead god. This section is highly susceptible to change however.

# Technical Considerations

- Are there any anticipated performance impacts? Possibly lighting based if it’s using supermatter lighting, if lighting impacts the frames.
- Does the feature require new systems, UI elements, or refactors of existing ones? it would likely  require a fork of certain cult of both varieties, AI, and supermatter code.
- For required UI elements, give a short description or a mockup of how they should look like (for example a radial menu, actions & alerts, navmaps, or other window types): as an antagonist, needs custom UI elements to distinguish what the hive wants the crew under its control to do. As well as a custom navmap managed by the supermatter, likely a radial menu to place Little crystaline markers on the map to show where it wants people to go, as well as a separate menu to manage the various little traps, crafting stations, as well as natural tools. The crafting station would just use the protolathe UI for crafting. Possibly something similar to the research tree for it's abilities.
